So now this is the output which we want to achieve with web components, and we are going to do that
step by step.
Let's create a new project here.
I'll create a new folder.
Product card.
And inside this folder, I will create the related files just to segregate.
So here I'm going to create the index dot XHTML.
Now inside this index, let me insert some predefined HTML exclamation and tab.
Let's change the title to web component.
And in the body.
Let's add an H1 saying header section.
In real world applications.
This section may contain a menu, but I'm just fixing it to header section text only.
Now.
Next, I want to have four product cards.
So let's say product card.
Now, this product card is a custom HTML element which we want to create and we are supposed to have
it for four times because we are showing the four products.
This is the web component we have to create.
Remember, by creating a web component in a way, you are creating a custom HTML tag as well.
Because there is nothing like a product card in HTML.
So let's create this custom HTML element inside JavaScript.
So I will add one JavaScript file here in the product card, I will add a new file product card, dart
js.
Now let me add a script tag here in the HTML.
And I'm going to import the product card.
J is here.
So in the current folder, we have this file.
Now let's go to the JavaScript file because we have to create a custom HTML element.
We will have to use the base class HTML element.
So I will say class product card.
Extends HTML element.
So product card component that is the class is created and which is taking all the behavior from base
class.
HTML element.
This also means product card is the class which will be instantiated every time you use the HTML tag.
In our case, the HTML tag is going to be product dash card, not this product card, which you see
on the screen.
This is just the class name and I will show you how to define the HTML tag and bind this class with
the particular custom HTML element.
Remember, this class name can be anything you can name it.
Jackie Chan No problem.
But we try to make it meaningful.
What I mean to say is this class name is in the tag name.
Few more things we need to add.
I will add a constructor and inside the first line is super, which refers to the parent class.
Now let me just add one line.
I will say this.
That is the current class dot inner HTML tactic.
And I'll just say product component.
So at the moment, this is the HTML of the component.
Now let's define a custom HTML element product card.
I will say window, which is a global object.
Dot custom elements dot define.
Because window is a global object, you can simply write custom elements as well.
You can avoid writing window, but I am using it with window itself.
Now inside the defined method, the first parameter is a string, which is the name of the HTML element.
So I will say product dash card, and the second parameter is the class name.
So in our case, it is product card.
Now let me just run this code in the live server so you can immediately see the updates.
And you see that the product component text is displaying four times.
The reason is here on line number 11 to 14, the product car component is written.
So it means the product component message is coming because of these lines, which is saying that this
is a custom HTML element which does some job in our case.
Later on it is going to display the product information.
Let me also just add H1 tag in the inner HTML, so this gets displayed in a little better way.
So here I'll say H1 the beginning and I'll end it.
H1 Now you see that four times it is displayed in a sequence.
So creating a component means you create a class like we have done here with product card extended from
HTML element based class.
Define the required HTML for your component in the constructor later with HTML template in fact.
But at the moment you directly define the HTML and then define the custom element using the custom elements
dot defined method.
This is just the basic idea, the basic structure of creating a web component.
There is a lot to do and a lot to know, but you can get the basic idea with these lines.
That is the syntax.
Now let's talk about relative questions.
So explain what is a web component and how can you create it.
So web component is basically the HTML, CSS and JavaScript combination, which you can combine or encapsulate
inside a component, inside a container which can perform independently.
Which can function independently.
And to create the component.
I've just listed out these points.
That is, you create a class, extend it from HTML element based class.
Define the required HTML for your component in the constructor later with HTML template in fact.
But at the moment you directly define the HTML and then define the custom element using the custom elements
dot defined method.